---
layout: post
title: "ONAC096"
description: ""
category: genes
tags: [leaf, leaf senescence, senescence, panicle, grain, grain yield, yield,  ABA , cytokinin, abscisic acid, ABA, grain filling, fertility, grain weight, transcription factor, defense, immunity, reactive oxygen species, transcriptional activator]
---

* **Information**  
    + Symbol: ONAC096  
    + MSU: [LOC_Os07g04560](http://rice.uga.edu/cgi-bin/ORF_infopage.cgi?orf=LOC_Os07g04560)  
    + RAPdb: [Os07g0138200](http://rapdb.dna.affrc.go.jp/viewer/gbrowse_details/irgsp1?name=Os07g0138200)  

* **Publication**  
    + [Three Rice NAC Transcription Factors Heteromerize and Are Associated with Seed Size.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=Three Rice NAC Transcription Factors Heteromerize and Are Associated with Seed Size.%5BTitle%5D), 2016, Front Plant Sci.
    + [Mutation of ONAC096 Enhances Grain Yield by Increasing Panicle Number and Delaying Leaf Senescence during Grain Filling in Rice.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=Mutation of ONAC096 Enhances Grain Yield by Increasing Panicle Number and Delaying Leaf Senescence during Grain Filling in Rice.%5BTitle%5D), 2019, Int J Mol Sci.
    + [A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.%5BTitle%5D), 2021, Front Plant Sci.

* **Genbank accession number**  

* **Key message**  
    + Mutation of ONAC096 Enhances Grain Yield by Increasing Panicle Number and Delaying Leaf Senescence during Grain Filling in Rice.
    + Here, we report that rice ONAC096 affects grain yield by regulating leaf senescence and panicle number
    + Two independent T-DNA insertion mutants (onac096-1 and onac096-2) with downregulated ONAC096 expression retained their green leaf color during natural senescence in the field, thus extending their photosynthetic capacity
    + Reverse-transcription quantitative PCR analysis showed that ONAC096 upregulated genes controlling chlorophyll degradation and leaf senescence
    + ONAC096 mediates abscisic acid (ABA)-induced leaf senescence by upregulating the ABA signaling genes ABA INSENSITIVE5 and ENHANCED EM LEVEL
    + ONAC096 expression increased rapidly in rice leaves upon the initiation of aging- and dark-induced senescence
    + Repressed OsCKX2 (encoding cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase) expression in the onac096 mutants led to a 15% increase in panicle number without affecting grain weight or fertility
    + The onac096 mutants showed a 16% increase in grain yield, highlighting the potential for using this gene to increase grain production
    + A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.
    + RNA-seq transcriptomic profiling and qRT-PCR analysis identified a small set of defense and signaling genes that are putatively regulated by ONAC096, and further biochemical analysis validated that ONAC096 could directly bind to the promoters of OsRap2
    + CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of ONAC096 attenuated rice immunity and flg22-induced reactive oxygen species burst and expression of PTI marker genes OsWRKY45 and OsPAL4; by contrast, overexpression of ONAC096 enhanced rice immunity or flg22-induced PTI
    + ONAC096 interacts with ONAC066, which is a positive regulator of rice immunity
    + These results demonstrate that ONAC096 positively contributes to rice immunity against M
    + ONAC096 had the DNA binding ability to NAC recognition sequence and was found to be a nucleus-localized transcriptional activator whose activity depended on its C-terminal

* **Connection**  
    + __Gn1a~OsCKX2__, __ONAC096__, [Mutation of ONAC096 Enhances Grain Yield by Increasing Panicle Number and Delaying Leaf Senescence during Grain Filling in Rice.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=Mutation of ONAC096 Enhances Grain Yield by Increasing Panicle Number and Delaying Leaf Senescence during Grain Filling in Rice.%5BTitle%5D),  Repressed OsCKX2 (encoding cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase) expression in the onac096 mutants led to a 15% increase in panicle number without affecting grain weight or fertility
    + __ONAC096__, __OsRap2.6~OsERF101__, [A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.%5BTitle%5D), A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.
    + __ONAC096__, __OsWRKY62__, [A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.%5BTitle%5D), A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.
    + __ONAC096__, __PAL~OsPAL4~OsPAL1__, [A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.%5BTitle%5D), A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.
    + __ONAC096__, __OsWRKY45~WRKY45__, [A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.%5BTitle%5D),  CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of ONAC096 attenuated rice immunity and flg22-induced reactive oxygen species burst and expression of PTI marker genes OsWRKY45 and OsPAL4; by contrast, overexpression of ONAC096 enhanced rice immunity or flg22-induced PTI
    + __ONAC096__, __SNAC3~ONAC066~OsNAC006__, [A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=A Pathogen-Inducible Rice NAC Transcription Factor ONAC096 Contributes to Immunity Against Magnaprothe oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae by Direct Binding to the Promoters of OsRap2.6, OsWRKY62, and OsPAL1.%5BTitle%5D),  ONAC096 interacts with ONAC066, which is a positive regulator of rice immunity

[//]: # * **Key figures**  


